# Web example

## What is it

The goal is to build a simple web server application that returns a message when hitting the target port.

Looking at this, it's similar to standard Node and Express patterns with a golang twist.

* Set up a route handler
* Start a server

## Workspaces

I'm building different small programs in the same repo. To do that, I need a `go.work` file to define the workspace.

I ended up in the terminal running `go work --help`. After reading the help, I moved to the workspace root and ran `go work use logfilter01 web01` to add the two modules to the workspace. The result was a workspace file (which is in `.gitignore`).

`go.work`

```golang
go 1.20

use (
 ./logfilter01
 ./web01
)
```

After setting up the workspace, I was able to `go build .` in `web01` and run the resulting `web01`, which works as expected

**COMMIT: FEAT: build a simple web service that returns "Hello, world."**

## Accept a query parameter and include in the response

I changed `w` and `r` in the handler function to `response` and `request` because I really don't like one-letter names for important variables. Calling a loop counter `i`, `j`, `k`, etc., is one thing. The request and response are important to an HTTP request handler.

Key point to remember -- the query parameter needs to be `?name=<name-value>`.

Sending JSON requires:

* Build a `map` to convert to a JSON string
* Create a JSON encoder (`json.NewEncoder()`)
* Encode the map (`json.Encode()`)

The web server now accepts two endpoints:

* `/` -- returns text (wrapped in a `<h1>` tag) -- example: `/?name=Joe`
* `/json` -- returns a JSON string -- example: `/json?name=Joe`

## Other

With the workspace, built files land in the individual module folders. I'm adding them to `.gitignore` when they appear to avoid future issues (committing built code to the repo).

**COMMIT: FEAT: accept a query parameter; add separate routes for JSON and HTML text**
